---
layout: post
title: Skipped 2016  
permalink: skipped-2016
comments: True
publish: False 
---

The last sentence in my last blog post states *I'll resume my coding studies on Monday, January 4, 2016.*

It didn't state that I'd continue writing blog posts in 2016.

My coding goals for 2016--which you'll find on the blog post dated 28 Nov 2015--turned out differently from what I had planned.

* I didn't learn enough iOS to qualify myself to say "yeah, I know how to develop a simple and interesting iOS app from scratch."
* I completed three chapters of the book *Programming in Objective-C, 6th Edition* before putting the book down to pursue other interests.

However, I *did* move to the mobile applications side of software development where I'm employed. I test new features that are added to a scheduling app that runs on Android and iOS mobile devices. I test new features from both the user interface and the behind-the-scenes service end-points perspectives.

I also now have an iPhone 7, which is one of several cool work tools provided to me by my employer. This is in contrast to my personal mobile phone, which is a beat-up old-school Samsung flip-phone that I recharge with pre-paid minutes once-a-year and that only handles voice calls.

My time at work in mobile development land will be ending next month, March, because of a rotation of people between teams. I'm trading spots with co-worker BB  who is a member of a team that fixes software defects considered *high priority*, by both Product Management and by clients, for an enterprise-wide scheduling software application. 

BB asked me if I would be willing to trade teams. I accepted because the trade gives BB the opportunity to work in Android and iOS mobile development land, which he hasn't yet experienced. 

As for me, I'm returning to the team that I was on before joining my current mobile development team. I'll be leaving a great team of people to re-join another great team of people, so it's all good.

I decided to not make any coding goals for 2017. 

What I'll be doing instead--because of the upcoming changes where I work--is brushing up on Java and MySQL.

As the tides come and go, other programming/computer related areas that I see myself exploring this year are JavaScript, Node.Js, and pentesting.

The actual two-word version of *pentesting* sounds lewd. 

Google it.
