---
layout: post
title: Preparing for 2016  
permalink: preparing-for-2016
comments: True
publish: True
---

Have you started thinking about your coding goals for 2016? I've been thinking about mine for the past three weeks.

For 2016 I'm going to learn iOS development.

Learning iOS development has been on my mind for the past six months. Last week I decided to stop *thinking* about it and to start *doing* something about it after I completed end-to-end testing of an iOS application created by the mobile development team where I work.

My employer's mobile development team creates both iOS and Android versions of the company's software, with first priority on the iOS version. As it is where I work, iOS before Android is the order that I notice when reading about mobile development at other companies. 

I'm not a member of the mobile development team. The team I'm on develops a web-based application primarily coded in Java. Where I work, emphasis on mobile development, with first priority on iOS, is where the action is growing. Whenever the opportunity presents itself I help the mobile development team test the interaction between their mobile application and my project team's web-based application.

I want to eventually move to the mobile side of software development.  

##Step 1: Need a Mac

The last Apple computer I owned was the Apple IIe... years ago. I needed an Apple Mac computer on which to learn iOS development. 

I bought a new 13.3" MacBook Pro that set me back around $1,500. Instead of opening the new MacBook when I got home I let it sit unopened inside the BestBuy bag overnight. The next day I returned the MacBook, box seals intact, because I couldn't justify the expense. 

After searching eBay I decided to go with a Late-2008 15" MacBook Pro with 4GB RAM and a 256GB hard disk. I got mine for less than $500.

I reformatted the hard disk and put a clean installation of OS X El Capitan (free download from the Apple store) on it. I also installed Xcode 7 (also a free download from the Apple store). The performance of both OS X El Capitan and Xcode 7 is fine for my beginner iOS learner needs.  

This morning I received an email notice that my 8GB memory upgrade kit and 250GB SSD order (around $160 total) for the MacBook from [crucial.com](https://www.crucial.com) was shipped. I'm looking forward to opening the MacBook next weekend and upgrading it.

Better than it was before. [Better... stronger... faster](https://youtu.be/HoLs0V8T5AA).        

##Step 2: Need to Learn Objective-C

Other than the simple Objective-C "Hello, world!" program that I wrote while exploring the Xcode 7 IDE, I have no Objective-C coding experience.

After researching several beginner-level Objective-C books I decided to use "Programming in Objective-C, 6th Ed." by Stephen Kochan. As of this writing the book is selling for $32.48 on amazon.com.  

I noticed on amazon.com that the 5th Edition of Kochan's book was published December 2013. The 6th Edition was published December 2014. This got me wondering if Kochan has a 7th Edition of the book ready for a December 2015 release. 

A bit of research on the internet for a 7th Edition release announcement of Kochan's book came up empty. This afternoon I sent the 7th Edition question to Kochan's Twitter. No response from him yet as of this writing.

Objective-C is an extension of C. I've already started reviewing the C language to prepare for Objective-C.  

##Step 3: Need to Learn iOS

I've read that it's possible to dive into learning iOS without any prior knowledge of Objective-C. This means having to learn both iOS and Objective-C at the same time.

Sounds tempting, but it's not for me.

It's premature of me to starting thinking about Step 3.

##Why Not Learn Swift Before Objective-C?

I decided to learn Objective-C before Swift after reading [iOS Developers Need to Know Objective-C](https://www.bignerdranch.com/blog/ios-developers-need-to-know-objective-c/) by Aaron Hillegass of [Big Nerd Ranch](https://www.bignerdranch.com). 

##Conclusion

For less than $650 I now have the **basic** tools needed to begin the journey of learning iOS development in 2016. 

Got the machine. Got the software. Make the time. Do it.


-----
**Afterthoughts**

* Eventually I'll need to enroll in the *Apple Developer Program*.

* As of this writing I don't own an iPhone, iPad, or other iOS device. I do have access to an iPad (brother's) and an iPad mini (mom's) when needed.

* When I'm ready to buy an iOS device it's going to be an Apple store refurbished one. 

* I plan on using my Late-2008 MacBook Pro until its performance slows to a crawl because I've become a Jedi-level iOS developer and the MacBook can't keep up with me... or if a version of OS X is released that the MacBook is not equipped to run. My bet's on the latter.

* When the time eventually arrives when I **have** to get the latest in MacBook offerings, I plan on buying new the top-of-the-line Pro model available.

* Regarding the above afterthough, realistically I'll likely buy the previous year's mid-level Pro model refurbished from the Apple store.
